Dear Sir/Madam:

I am pleased to write this letter of support for Dr. Jan Novak’s petition for a National Interest
Waiver with respect to his application for Permanent Residency. I am a Professor of Physics and
the Department Chairperson in the Physics Department at the U.S. Regionally Accredited
University #2. I have received federal research funding during my career in excess of $13 Million
from Federal agencies including Top National Agency (TNA) and Another National Agency. My
research specialties include astro-particle physics, space radiation dosimetry, particle detector
development, relativistic heavy ion physics, and particle transport simulation. I have known Dr.
Novak since 2008 and I am familiar with his research in the area of the active pixel-based charged
particle detectors, and in particular his work with the Detimage pixel detectors. In addition, as
Department Chair, I have been serving for the past year as his mentor for his current post-doctoral
fellowship in the Physics Department at the U.S. Regionally Accredited University #2.
Having done his Ph.D. thesis research with our Detimage collaborators at the Physics Laboratory
of the Average European Technical University in European City, Dr. Novak’s unique expertise
has been invaluable in preparing the Radiation Monitoring Detector Project (RMDP) Detimage-
based devices for their current deployment on the International Space Station (ISS) as part of an
Advanced Monitor Experiment (AME). Detimage is the product of a European Laboratory for
Nuclear Research (CERN) in Geneva, Switzerland-based Collaboration, of which the U.S.
Regionally Accredited University #2 is one of only two U.S. institutions that are members. The
other member is the Space Exploration Institute at Top U.S. University #1, but their interests are
in imaging rather than space radiation dosimetry, meaning that expertise with this particular
technology is currently lacking in the U.S. Dr. Novak has been working closely with our TNA
colleagues over the last 6 months on this AME, and they have expressed their crucial dependence
upon his expertise to enable the success of this current test. In addition he has assembled by
himself the required a calibration facility for this spaceflight hardware here on the U.S. Regionally
Accredited University #2 campus and he has been a crucial member of the team that is preparing
the software for analysis of the data that has just started to arrive from those units. It is fair to say
that we would not be in the position we are to support this project were he not available.
Beyond the current deployment of this technology on the ISS, Dr. Novak has become a critical
person advising our TNA colleagues on the design and development of the next generation of
operational radiation monitoring devices that are to be deployed on the new U.S. manned
spacecraft, the Space Rocket. It is clear that the project would be seriously challenged to remain
on schedule without his inputs and guidance.

For the foreseeable future, it is clear that TNA will continue to have a critical need for his skills
and especially his familiarity with this technology. They have been impressed enough to indicate
to me their interest in hiring him permanently should he attain Permanent Residency status. While
that prospect by itself argues strongly for the approval of his petition, there are other potential
uses for this technology in the area of medical imaging that are just beginning to be developed
here in the U.S. The Detimage technology provides the prospect of delivering the capability to
produce what are effectively “color” x-ray images. A number of U.S. companies are investigating
basing next generation devices on this technology, making Dr. Novak’s value to them potentially
very great. The newest generation of the technology is just becoming available now, and bringing
it to bear to improve a number of issues with respect to the current medical imaging technology is
going to become increasingly important in the coming years.

Dr, Novak has shown himself to be an innovative and resourceful researcher and a highly
competent individual in the area of electronic pixel detectors. He is also a very congenial fellow
and a diligent worker. I dread losing him in the future, but I recognize that person’s of this caliber
will be highly sought after.

In short, I strongly recommend for the benefit of the nation in that he will continue to be an
important player in the field both for TNA in the immediately foreseeable future, but also in allied
fields of great importance to humanity, that Dr. Novak’s petition for Permanent Residency be
approved. Please do not hesitate to contact me further should you require any further information.

Respectfully,
